=========
Referrals
=========

Odoo's *Referrals* application is a centralized place where all information regarding referrals is
housed - from points earned, coworkers hired, and rewards selected. Users can recommend people they
know for job positions, and then earn referral points as those people progress through the
recruitment pipeline. Once enough referral points are earned, they can be exchanged for prizes. The
*Referrals* application integrates with the *Employees*, *Recruitment*, and *Website* applications,
all of which must be installed in order for the *Referrals* application to function.

The only configurations needed for the *Referrals* application *after* installation are related to
the :ref:`rewards <referrals/rewards>`; everything else is pre-configured when Odoo *Referrals* is
installed.

Users with either :guilabel:`Referral User`, :guilabel:`Officer`, or :guilabel:`Administrator`
access rights for the *Recruitment* application have access to the *Referrals* application. Only
users with :guilabel:`Administrator` access rights for the *Recruitment* application have access to
the :ref:`reporting <referrals/reporting>` and configurations menus. For more information on users
and access rights, refer to these documents: :doc:`../general/users` and
:doc:`../general/users/access_rights`.

Onboarding
==========

When opening the *Referrals* application for the first time, a pre-configured onboarding script
appears. This is in the form of four slides, each explaining the different parts of the *Referrals*
application. At the top of the dashboard, the following message is displayed throughout all the
onboarding slides: :guilabel:`GATHER YOUR TEAM! Job Referral Program`. Behind this main message is
an image, and beneath it some more explanatory text.

Each of the onboarding slides has a corresponding image and message that is displayed. After reading
each message, click the :guilabel:`Next` button to advance to the next slide.

The text that appears on each slide is as follows:

#. :guilabel:`Oh no! Villains are lurking the city! Help us recruit a team of superheroes to save
   the day!`
#. :guilabel:`Browse through open job positions, promote them on social media, or refer friends.`
#. :guilabel:`Collect points and exchange them for awesome gifts in the shop.`
#. :guilabel:`Compete against your colleagues to build the best justice league!`

.. note::
   The onboarding slides will appear every time the *Referrals* application is opened, until all the
   slides have been viewed and the :guilabel:`Start Now` button has been clicked. If the onboarding
   is exited at any point, or if the :guilabel:`Start Now` button has *not* been clicked, the
   onboarding slides will begin again when the *Referrals* application is opened. Once the
   :guilabel:`Start Now` button has been clicked, the onboarding slides will not be seen again, and
   the main dashboard will load when the *Referrals* application is opened from that point on.

At any point during onboarding, the :guilabel:`Skip` button may be clicked. This exits the
onboarding, and the main *Referrals* dashboard loads. If :guilabel:`Skip` is clicked, onboarding
slides will not load anymore when opening the *Referrals* application.

.. image:: referrals/onboarding.png
   :align: center
   :alt: An onboarding slide with the skip and next buttons visible at the bottom.

.. note::
   If there are any candidates hired that the user had referred prior to opening the Referrals app
   (meaning the onboarding slides have not appeared before), when :guilabel:`Start Now` is clicked
   at the end of onboarding, instead of going to the main dashboard, a :ref:`hired
   <referrals/hired>` screen appears instead.

Modifying onboarding slides
---------------------------

Onboarding slides can be modified if desired. Only users with :guilabel:`Administrator` rights for
the *Recruitment* application can modify onboarding slides. To edit a slide, navigate to
:menuselection:`Referrals app --> Configuration --> Onboarding.` Each line displays the text for the
individual onboarding slide. To edit an onboarding slide, click on an individual slide line to open
the slide's onboarding form.

Make any changes to the message in the :guilabel:`Text` field. A :guilabel:`Company` may be
selected, as well. However, if this field is populated, that slide is *only* displayed for that
particular company.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Company` field only appears when in a multi-company database.

The image can be modified, as well. Hover over the image thumbnail in the top-right corner of the
form. A :guilabel:`‚úèÔ∏è (pencil)` icon and :guilabel:`üóëÔ∏è (garbage can)` icon appear. Click the
:guilabel:`‚úèÔ∏è (pencil)` icon to change the image. A file navigator window loads. Navigate to the
desired image, select it, then click :guilabel:`Open`. The new image appears in the thumbnail. To
delete an image, click the :guilabel:`üóëÔ∏è (garbage can)` icon, then select a new image using the
:guilabel:`‚úèÔ∏è (pencil)` icon.

.. image:: referrals/edit-onboarding.png
   :align: center
   :alt: An onboarding slide in edit mode, with the main fields highlighted.

The sequence in which the slides appear can be changed from the *Onboarding* dashboard. Click the
:guilabel:`(six small gray boxes)` icon to the left of the the slide text, and drag the slide to the
desired position.

.. image:: referrals/onboarding-reorder.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The onboarding slides in a list, with the drag and drop arrows highlighted.

Share job positions
===================

In order to earn referral points, a user must first share a job position, so the applicant can apply
for the position. Job positions can be shared in several ways within the *Referrals* application,
through the :ref:`View Jobs <referrals/view-jobs>` button and the :ref:`Email A Friend
<referrals/email-jobs>` button, located at the bottom of the *Referrals* app dashboard.

.. note::
   Sharing jobs can **only** occur after onboarding slides have been viewed or skipped.

.. _referrals/view-jobs:

View Jobs
---------

To see all job positions that are actively recruiting candidates, click the :guilabel:`View Jobs`
button on the main Referrals dashboard. This presents all job positions, with each individual job
presented in its own card.

.. image:: referrals/jobs.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The 'View Jobs' screen, displaying all current open job positions. All information is
         displayed on the card.

Each job position card contains the following information:

- The title of the job position. This information is taken from the :guilabel:`Job Position` field
  of the job form.
- The number of positions being recruited. This information is taken from the :guilabel:`Expected
  New Employees` field of the :guilabel:`Recruitment` tab of the job form.
- The points a user will earn when an applicant applies for the position.
- The job description detailing the job position. This information is taken from the :guilabel:`Job
  Position` tab of the job form.

To see all the details for a job position, click the :guilabel:`More Info` button on the specific
card. This opens the job position webpage in a new browser tab. This is what an applicant sees
before applying for a position.

.. note::
   Only published job positions will be visible in the Referrals app. To check which job positions
   are published or not, refer to the :doc:`recruitment/new_job` documentation.

Refer friends
-------------

To share a job position with someone, click the :guilabel:`Refer Friend` button on the specific job
position card. A pre-configured :guilabel:`Send Job Offer by Mail` email pop-up window appears.
Enter the recipient's email address in the :guilabel:`Email` field.

The subject and body are populated using a default template. The subject `Job for you` appears, and
can be modified if desired.

The specific title of the job position will populate the :guilabel:`Job Position` placeholder in the
email body. The `See Job Offer` text in the email body is an individualized tracking link to the
specific job position listed on the website. When the prospective employee receives the email, the
link will send them to the job position page, where they can apply for the position, and the person
who referred them is tracked in the *Referrals* application.

If desired, add any text or closing salutation to the email body. When all edits have been made,
click :guilabel:`Send Email` to send the email, or click :guilabel:`Cancel` to close the email
pop-up window.

.. image:: referrals/email.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Referral email pop-up window with the email message inside it.

Share a job
-----------

Other than sending an email, job positions can be shared, via social media platforms, and tracking
links to the job position. At the bottom of each job position card are four icons, and corresponding
tracking links, that can be used to share the job position, keeping track of applicants in the
*Referrals* application.

.. image:: referrals/share.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The various sharing icons that appear for each job.

Link
~~~~

To share the job position with a customized tracking link, click the :guilabel:`Share Now` button
with the :guilabel:`üîó (chain)` icon inside it. A :guilabel:`Link to Share` pop-up window appears
with the tracking link. Click :guilabel:`Copy` to copy the link. After the link is copied, click the
:guilabel:`Close` button to close the pop-up window. Next, share the link with the prospective
employee.

Facebook
~~~~~~~~

To share the job position using Facebook, click the :guilabel:`Share Now` button with the
:guilabel:`f (Facebook)` icon inside it.

If the user is already logged into Facebook, when the :guilabel:`f (Facebook)` icon is clicked, a
:guilabel:`Share on Facebook` page loads in a new tab, with the link populated in the main body of
the new post in a pop-up window. If the user is *not* already logged in, a log-in screen loads,
instead, prompting the user to log-in to Facebook first.

Type in any additional information to add to the post, then share the job position using the
available options in Facebook.

X (formerly Twitter)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A job position can also be shared on X (formerly Twitter). Click the :guilabel:`Share Now` button
with the :guilabel:`X` icon inside it.

If the user is already signed in to X (formerly Twitter), when the :guilabel:`Share Now` icon is
clicked, an X (formerly Twitter) page loads in a new tab with a pre-populated message ready to post,
in a draft pop-up window. If the user is *not* already signed in, a sign-in screen loads instead,
prompting the user to sign in to X (formerly Twitter).

The default message is:

:guilabel:`Amazing job offer for (Job Position)! Check it live: (link to Job Position)`

Type in any additional information, or make any edits to the message, then share using the available
options in X (formerly Twitter).

LinkedIn
~~~~~~~~

To share a job position on LinkedIn, click the :guilabel:`Share Now` button with the :guilabel:`in
(LinkedIn logo)` inside it.

If the user is already logged into LinkedIn, when the :guilabel:`Share Now` button is clicked, a new
tab loads in LinkedIn, with a link to the job position at the top. If the user is *not* already
logged in, a log-in screen loads instead, prompting the user to log-in to LinkedIn first.

The job position can be shared either in a public post, or in a private message to an individual (or
group of individuals).

Type in any additional information, or make any edits to the message or post, then share using the
available options in LinkedIn.

.. _referrals/email-jobs:

Email a friend
--------------

Another way to share job opportunities is to share the entire current list of open job positions
instead of one job position at a time. To do this, navigate to the main *Referrals* app dashboard.
Click the :guilabel:`Email a friend` button at the bottom of the screen. A :guilabel:`Send Job Offer
by Mail` pop-up window appears.

Enter the email address in the :guilabel:`Email` line. The email can be sent to multiple
recipients, simply enter a comma followed by a single space after each email address. The
:guilabel:`Subject` is pre-configured with `Job for you`, but can be edited.

The email body is also populated with pre-configured text. The text that appears is:

`Hello,`

`There are some amazing job offers in my company! Have a look, they can be interesting for you\:`

`See Job Offers`

The :guilabel:`See Job Offers` text is a tracking link to a complete list of all job positions
currently being recruited for. Add any additional text and make any edits to the message body, if
necessary. Then, click :guilabel:`Send Mail` to send the email. This sends the message, and closes
the window.

.. _referrals/hired:

Hired referrals
===============

When a candidate that has been referred by a user is hired, the user "grows their superhero team"
and adds superhero avatars to their Referrals dashboard.

After a referral has been hired, when the user next opens the Referrals app, instead of the main
dashboard, a hired page loads. The text :guilabel:`(Referral Name) has been hired! Choose an avatar
for your new friend!` appears.

Below this message are five avatar thumbnails to choose from. If an avatar has already been assigned
to a referral, the thumbnail is grayed out, and the name that the avatar has been chosen for appears
beneath the avatar. Click on an available avatar to select it.

If more than one referral was hired since opening the *Referrals* application, after selecting the
first avatar, the user is prompted to select another avatar for the subsequent hired referral. Once
all avatars have been selected, the dashboard loads and all the avatars are now visible. Mouse over
each avatar and their name is displayed above them.

.. image:: referrals/avatars.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The hired screen. A selection of avatars are presented to chose from, with any already
         chosen are greyed out.

Modify friends
--------------

Friend avatars are able to be modified in the same manner that :ref:`levels <referrals/levels>` are
modified. Only users with :guilabel:`Administrator` rights for the *Recruitment* application can
make modifications to friends. The pre-configured friends can be seen and modified by navigating to
:menuselection:`Referrals app --> Configuration --> Friends`. Each friend avatar appears in the
:guilabel:`Dashboard Image` column, and the corresponding name appears in the :guilabel:`Friend
Name` column. The default images are a motley group of hero characters, ranging from robots to dogs.

To modify a friend's dashboard image, thumbnail, name, or position, click on an individual friend to
open the referral friend form. Click :guilabel:`Edit` to make modifications. Type the name in the
:guilabel:`Friend Name` field. The name is solely to differentiate the friends in the configuration
menu; the friend's name is not visible anywhere else in the *Referrals* application.

The :guilabel:`Position` can be set to either :guilabel:`Front` or :guilabel:`Back`. This determines
the position of the friend in relation to the user's super hero avatar. Click the radio button next
to the desired selection, and the friend will appear either in front of or behind the user's avatar
when activated.

If desired, both the thumbnail :guilabel:`Image` and the :guilabel:`Dashboard Image` can be
modified. Hover over the image being replaced to reveal a :guilabel:`‚úèÔ∏è (pencil)` icon and
:guilabel:`üóëÔ∏è (garbage can)` icon. Click the :guilabel:`‚úèÔ∏è (pencil)` icon, and a file explorer
window appears. Navigate to the desired image file, then click :guilabel:`Open` to select it.

The referral friend form automatically saves, but can be saved manually at any time by clicking the
*Save manually* option, represented by a :guilabel:`(cloud upload)` icon, located in the top-left
corner. To cancel any changes made, click the :guilabel:`‚úñÔ∏è (Discard all changes)` icon to delete
any changes, and revert to the original content.

.. image:: referrals/edit-friend.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A friend form in edit mode.

.. warning::
   It is not advised to edit the images. An image file must have a transparent background in order
   for it to render properly. Only users with knowledge about transparent images should attempt
   adjusting any images in the *Referrals* application.

   Once an image is changed and the friend is saved, it is **not possible** to revert to the
   original image. To revert to the original image, the *Referrals* application must be *uninstalled
   then reinstalled.*

Referral points
===============

The referral program is based on earning points that are then exchanged for rewards. On the main
*Referrals* application dashboard, the top displays a summary of the user's current points. The left
side of the summary displays the total points earned, and the right side displays the points that
are available to spend.

To see the various referrals and the points earned for each, click on one of the buttons directly
beneath the avatars. The options are :guilabel:`Referrals`, :guilabel:`Ongoing`, and
:guilabel:`Successful`.

The current number of referrals who are still active in the recruitment pipeline, and have not yet
been hired or refused, appear above the :guilabel:`Ongoing` button. The number of referrals who have
been hired appear above the :guilabel:`Successful` button. The total number of referrals (both the
ongoing and successful referrals combined) appear above the :guilabel:`Referrals` button.

.. note::
   To view the referrals associated with each of the categories, :guilabel:`Referrals`,
   :guilabel:`Ongoing`, and :guilabel:`Successful`, click on the corresponding button. All the
   referrals for that specific category are displayed.

My referrals
------------

To see all the referrals (both ongoing and successful) click the :guilabel:`Referrals` button. A
:guilabel:`My Referral` window loads. This screen displays all the referrals, with each referral in
its own referral card.

A successful referral displays a green :guilabel:`Hired` banner in the top-right corner of the card.
Referrals that are in process display a purple :guilabel:`In Progress` banner in the top-right
corner.

Each referral card lists the name of the applicant, the subject/application title (as it appears on
the applicant card in the *Recruitment* app), the name of the job position, the person responsible
for filling the role (recruiter), and the points earned. For referrals that have been hired, the
selected avatar also appears on the card.

.. image:: referrals/referrals.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Two referral cards, one hired and one in-progress.

Points
~~~~~~

The points that can be earned for a referral are the same across all job positions. Each stage of
the recruitment process has corresponding points assigned to it. The stages listed correspond to the
stages configured in the *Recruitment* application.

On each individual referral card, beneath the points earned is a bar chart that displays how many
points have been earned out of the total possible points that can be earned if the applicant is
hired.

Beneath the bar chart is a list of the various recruitment stages and the points earned when the
referral moves to that stage. If a stage has been achieved and the points have been earned, a green
check mark appears next to the stage.

.. example::
   The pre-configured point structure for referrals is as follows:

   - :guilabel:`Initial Qualification`: 1 point
   - :guilabel:`First Interview`: 20 points
   - :guilabel:`Second Interview`: 9 points
   - :guilabel:`Contract Proposal`: 5 points
   - :guilabel:`Contract Signed`: 50 points

   The total points earned for a referral that is hired is 85 points. Modifications of the points
   earned for each stage are done in the *Recruitment* application. Refer to the
   :ref:`Recruitment <recruitment/modify-stages>` documentation to modify the points for each stage.

.. _referrals/rewards:

Rewards
=======

Create rewards
--------------

The rewards are the only configurations needed when setting up the *Referrals* application. Only
users with :guilabel:`Administrator` rights for the *Recruitment* application can create or modify
rewards. To add rewards, navigate to :menuselection:`Referrals app --> Configuration --> Rewards`.
Click :guilabel:`New`, and a reward form loads. Enter the following information on the form:

- :guilabel:`Product Name`: enter the name as it should appear for the reward.
- :guilabel:`Cost`: enter the amount of points required to redeem the reward.
- :guilabel:`Company`: using the drop-down menu, select the company the reward appears for. If a
  reward is to be used for several companies, each company needs to have a record of the reward,
  with the company listed on the form. This field only appears if in a multi-company environment.
- :guilabel:`Gift Responsible`: select the person who will be responsible for procuring and
  delivering the reward to the recipient, using the drop-down menu. This person is alerted when the
  reward is bought in the *Referrals* application, so they know when to deliver the reward to the
  recipient.
- :guilabel:`Description`: type in the description for the reward. This will be visible on the
  reward card, beneath the title.
- :guilabel:`Photo`: add a photo of the reward, which appears on the rewards page. Hover over the
  image square, and two icons appear, a :guilabel:`‚úèÔ∏è (pencil)` and a :guilabel:`üóëÔ∏è (garbage can)`.
  Click the :guilabel:`‚úèÔ∏è (pencil)` icon, and a file explorer appears. Navigate to the photo file,
  then click :guilabel:`Open` to select it.

The only required fields are the :guilabel:`Product Name`, :guilabel:`Company` (if applicable), and
:guilabel:`Description`.

.. image:: referrals/rewards.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A filled out reward form with all details entered.

.. important::
   It is advised to enter a :guilabel:`Cost` and add a :guilabel:`Photo`. If a cost is not entered,
   the default cost will be listed as zero, which would list the reward as free in the reward shop.
   If a photo is not selected, a placeholder icon will be displayed on the rewards page.

Redeem rewards
--------------

To redeem points for a reward, click the :guilabel:`Rewards` button on the main Referrals dashboard.
All the configured rewards are listed in individual reward cards. The points required to purchase
the reward is listed in the top-right corner of the card. If the user has enough points to purchase
a reward, a :guilabel:`üß∫ (basket) Buy` button appears at the bottom of the reward card. If they do
not have enough points for a reward, the reward card displays :guilabel:`You need another (x) points
to buy this` instead of a buy button.

Click the :guilabel:`üß∫ (basket) Buy` button on a reward to purchase it. A :guilabel:`Confirmation`
pop-up window appears, asking if the user is sure they want to purchase the reward. Click
:guilabel:`OK` to purchase the item, or :guilabel:`Cancel` to close the window and cancel the
purchase.

After :guilabel:`OK` is clicked, the pop-up window closes, and the points used to purchase the
reward are subtracted from the user's available points. The rewards presented are now updated to
reflect the user's current available points.

.. image:: referrals/redeem-rewards.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Buy button appears below a mug and backpack reward, while the bicycle reward states how
         many more reward points are needed to redeem.

.. _referrals/levels:

Levels
======

The *Referrals* application has pre-configured levels that are reflected in the user's avatar on the
Referrals dashboard. As a user refers potential employees and earns points, they can *level up*,
much like in a video game.

Levels have no functional impact on the performance of the application. They are solely used for the
purpose of adding achievement tiers for participants to aim for, gamifying referrals for the user.

The user's current level is displayed at the top of the main *Referrals* application dashboard,
directly beneath their photo, in a :guilabel:`Level: X` format. In addition, a colored ring appears
around the user's photo, indicating how many points the user currently has, and how many additional
points they need to level up. The cyan colored portion of the ring represents points earned, while
the white colored portion represents the points still needed before they can level up.

Modify levels
-------------

Only users with :guilabel:`Administrator` rights for the *Recruitment* application can modify
levels. The pre-configured levels can be seen and modified by navigating to
:menuselection:`Referrals app --> Configuration --> Levels`. Each avatar appears in the
:guilabel:`Image` column, and the corresponding level number appears in the :guilabel:`Level Name`
column. The default images are of Odoo superheroes, and each level adds an additional element to
their avatar, such as capes and shields.

To modify a level's image, name, or points required to reach the level, click on an individual level
in the list to open the level form, then make modifications.

Type in the name (or number) of the level in the :guilabel:`Level Name` field. What is entered is
displayed beneath the user's photo on the main dashboard when they reach that level. Enter the
number of referral points needed to reach that level in the :guilabel:`Requirements` field. The
points needed to level up are the total accumulated points earned over the lifetime of the employee,
not additional points from the previous level that must be earned.

If desired, the :guilabel:`Image` can also be modified. Hover over the image to reveal a
:guilabel:`‚úèÔ∏è (pencil)` icon and :guilabel:`üóëÔ∏è (garbage can)` icon. Click the :guilabel:`‚úèÔ∏è
(pencil)` icon, and a file explorer window appears. Navigate to the desired image file, then click
:guilabel:`Open` to select it.

The level form saves automatically, but can be saved manually at any time by clicking the *save
manually* option, represented by a :guilabel:`(cloud upload)` icon, located in the top-left corner.
To cancel any changes made, click the :guilabel:`‚úñÔ∏è (Discard all changes)` icon to delete any
changes, and revert to the original content.

.. image:: referrals/levels.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A level form in edit mode.

.. warning::
   It is not advised to edit the images. An image file must have a transparent background in order
   for it to render properly. Only users with knowledge about transparent images should attempt
   adjusting any images in the *Referrals* application.

   Once an image is changed and the level is saved, it is **not possible** to revert to the original
   image. To revert to the original image, the *Referrals* application must be *uninstalled then
   reinstalled.*

Level up
--------

Once enough points have been accumulated to level up, the circle around the user's photo is
completely filled in with a cyan color, a large image stating :guilabel:`Level up!` appears above
the photo, and the phrase :guilabel:`Click to level up!` appears beneath the user's photo and
current level.

Click on either the :guilabel:`LEVEL UP!` graphic, the user's photo, or the text :guilabel:`Click to
level up!` beneath the user's photo to level up the user. The user's avatar changes to the current
level, and the ring around the photo is updated to indicate the current amount of points.

Leveling up does not cost the user any points, the user simply needs to earn the specified amount of
points required.

.. image:: referrals/level-up.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A 'Click to level up!' appears beneath the user's image, and a large 'Level up!' appears
         above their image.

.. note::
   Once a user has reached the highest configured level, they will continue to accrue points that
   can be redeemed for rewards, but they are no longer able to level up. The ring around their photo
   remains solid cyan.

Alerts
======

In the *Referrals* application, it is possible to post a message, also referred to as an *alert*, at
the top of the dashboard to share important information with users. These alerts appear as a thin
semi-transparent banner, with the word :guilabel:`New!` appearing on the far left. The text for the
alert is in the center of the banner, and on the far right side is an :guilabel:`X`.

Alerts appear on the main dashboard for the specified time configured on the individual alert. If a
user does not wish to see a specific alert again, click the :guilabel:`X` in the far right side of
the alert. This removes the alert from the dashboard and will not appear again, even when opening
the *Referrals* application for the first time in a new session.

.. image:: referrals/alerts.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Two alert banners appear above the user's photo.

Create an alert
---------------

Only users with :guilabel:`Administrator` rights for the *Recruitment* application can create
alerts. To add a new alert, navigate to the :menuselection:`Referrals application --> Configuration
--> Alerts`.

Click :guilabel:`Create` and a blank alert form loads. Enter the following information on the form:

- :guilabel:`Date From`: the date the alert starts. On this date, the alert will be visible on the
  dashboard.
- :guilabel:`Date To`: the date the alert ends. After this date, the alert will be hidden from view.
- :guilabel:`Company`: the current company populates this field by default. To modify the company
  the alert should be displayed for, select the company from the drop-down menu. If this field
  remains blank, the alert is visible to everyone with access to the *Referrals* application. If a
  company is specified, only user's within that company (who also have access to the *Referrals*
  application) will see the alert. This field only appears when in a multi-company database.
- :guilabel:`Alert`: enter the text for the alert. This message appears inside the alert banner on
  the main dashboard.
- :guilabel:`On Click`: there are three options for the alert. Click the radio button next to the
  desired selection. The options are:

  - :guilabel:`Not Clickable`: the alert only displays text, there is no link to click.
  - :guilabel:`Go to All Jobs`: the alert contains a link that when clicked, navigates to the
    website with all the currently posted job positions.
  - :guilabel:`Specify URL`: the alert contains a link to a specific URL, that when clicked,
    navigates to that URL. When selected, a :guilabel:`URL` field appears below the :guilabel:`On
    Click` section. Enter the URL in the field.

.. image:: referrals/alert-form.png
   :align: center
   :alt: An alert form completely filled in with all selections entered.

.. _referrals/reporting:

Reporting
=========

Only users with :guilabel:`Administrator` rights for the *Recruitment* application have access to
the Reporting feature in *Referrals*. To access the reports, click :menuselection:`Referrals
application --> Reporting`. The main view is the Reporting Dashboard view, which contains three
sections.

In the top portion of the window, the report displays a bar chart of how many referred candidates
are hired, and how many are still in the hiring pipeline. The candidates are further divided by
channel, showing specifically where the referral came from, such as a direct referral, Facebook,
etc. If a channel does not appear on the report, that indicates there are no referrals from that
particular channel.

The middle third provides all the specific data that has been tracked. This includes how many total
points have been earned across all referrals, how many applicants were referred, hired, or refused,
how many applicants the current logged-in user referred, how many total points were earned, and how
many points were given for refused applicants.

The bottom third displays a pivot table. This table can be inserted into a new or existing
spreadsheet. To do so, click the :guilabel:`Insert in Spreadsheet` button right above the chart. A
pop-up appears, asking which spreadsheet to insert the pivot chart into. Select the desired
spreadsheet from the drop-down menu, or select :guilabel:`New Spreadsheet`. Click
:guilabel:`Confirm` and the selected spreadsheet loads, with the new table in it.

.. note::
   The spreadsheet is stored in the *Documents* application. This application needs to be installed
   to use the :guilabel:`Insert in Spreadsheet` option.
